Vagrant and Ansible both had some learning curves associated with each technology.


Vagrant:

For starters, the use of Ruby as the primary scripting language threw me into an unfamiliar syntax.
Fortunately the commands are fairly straight forward to read, however it would have been significantly more challenging without some scaffolding/template to build on.
Had the Vagrant script file been a flavor of Python or yaml, I feel I would have been able to compose and possibly abstract/encapsulate and group functionality better.
The other issue I had dealing with the vagrant file was transfering of stastic playbooks to arbitrary locations and running on the remote host.
To solve this, I kept the file paths simple to ensure consistency.
Overall, vagrant was pretty useful, but does feel a bit older than say Ansible in its design.


Ansible:

Yaml - Yaml Ain't Markup Language has become increasingly popular for a declarative manifest of sorts.
Ansible's use of yaml in playbooks leads to concise, and direct commands to execute to different inventory groups.
So far its been pretty nice and easy to work with...

Updates:

Installing CouchDB was among the hardest parts of the 2nd half of the assignment.
CouchDB installation was complicated due to the nature of the DPKG interactive prompts which needed to be properly completed.
To get around this, we used the SNAP image, which greatly simplified the efforts and worked out of the box pretty well.

In addition, the Producers on the local VMs decide to hang up, even when using nohup.

The full pipe-line in 1 sequences works, however the Producers need to be started up again...
I am not 100% why they are hanging up, but will look into this to clean it up a bit.

There were several files I had coded for a few different approaches, 
and in the end a few of them are simply not needed anymore.
I've kept in place for now for general debugging as well as history of the changes...


This was a pretty hard project to get working overall, and a few issues with chameleon cloud
Major issues included: failling to properly schedule or provision a VM, or tear down, and also attempting to SSH into the newest provisioned host without waiting long enough 
(is variable, but 50 seconds seemedd to work)